Chunk 2: Freud, Interpretation of Dreams â€” Chapter I

To write a history of our scientific knowledge of dream problems is so
difficult because, however valuable some parts of this knowledge may
have been, no progress in definite directions has been discernible.
There has been no construction of a foundation of assured results upon
which future investigators could continue to build, but every new author
takes up the same problems afresh and from the very beginning. Were I to
follow the authors in chronological order, and give a review of the
opinions each has held concerning the problems of the dream, I should be
prevented from drawing a clear and complete picture of the present state
of knowledge on the subject. I have therefore preferred to base the
treatment upon themes rather than upon the authors, and I shall cite for
each problem of the dream the material found in the literature for its
solution.

But as I have not succeeded in mastering the entire literature, which is
widely disseminated and interwoven with that on other subjects, I must
ask my readers to rest content provided no fundamental fact or important
viewpoint be lost in my description.

Until recently most authors have been led to treat the subjects of sleep
and dream in the same connection, and with them they have also regularly
treated analogous states of psychopathology, and other dreamlike states
like hallucinations, visions, &c. In the more recent works, on the other
hand, there has been a tendency to keep more closely to the theme, and
to take as the subject one single question of the dream life. This
change, I believe, is an expression of the conviction that enlightenment
and agreement in such obscure matters can only be brought about by a
series of detailed investigations. It is such a detailed investigation
and one of a special psychological nature, that I would offer here. I
have little occasion to study the problem of sleep, as it is essentially
a psychological problem, although the change of functional
determinations for the mental apparatus must be included in the
character of sleep. The literature of sleep will therefore not be
considered here.

A scientific interest in the phenomena of dreams as such leads to the
following in part interdependent inquiries: